# Euler deconvolution estimates on classic and plateau plots - A Python implementation
This work was submitted to the journal Computers & Geosciences in 14/05/2019 - CAGEO_2019_409

## README for

euler_python.py - "Euler deconvolution estimates on classic and plateau plots - A Python implementation"

by Felipe F. Melo (Observatório Nacional) and Valéria C. F. Barbosa (Observatório
Nacional) (2019)

Email: felipe146@hotmail.com (F.F. Melo); valcris@on.br (V.C.F. Barbosa) 

This repository contains the manuscript and a collection of Python codes and synthetic data 
example for a paper about the open-source package Euler deconvolution.The 
example data reproduce the results and figures shown in the publication. The Euler deconvolution
package is compatible with Python 2.7 and 3.7 programming language. To run the program,the 
numpy library is required. In addition, the matplotlib is required to run the script 
synthetic.py.

1 - Abstract
2 - Content
3 - Prerequisites
4 - Running the files
5 - License

================================================================================


### 1 - Abstract
----------------------
Euler deconvolution is a popular method for interpretation of potential-field data.
 The method estimates the position of a geologic source and the data background 
 (base level) based on the magnetic or gravimetric data, for a given nature (i.e.,
 structural index – SI). These estimates are computed using a moving data-window
 scheme spanning the whole dataset. The selection of the best estimates uses the
 plot of these estimates. Traditionally, for each SI, the horizontal coordinates
 estimates obtained for each position of a moving data window are plotted in the
 plan view of the study area and the depth estimates are represented by different
 color. This plot requires a statistical criterion to select the best estimates 
 for each SI. In this case, mostly, the base-level estimates are computed but they
 are neither used nor shown. Henceforth, this traditional representation of Euler
 solution will be referred to as “classic plot” of Euler solutions. We compare the
 classic plot with an alternative plot of Euler estimates (henceforth referred to
 “plateau plot” of Euler solutions). In the plateau plot, for each SI, every Euler
 estimate is displayed against the central position of the moving data window. At
 plateau plot, when the correct SI is used the horizontal, depth and base-level 
 estimates form a plateau of constant values over the source. We compare the 
 visualization of Euler deconvolution estimates using classic and plateau plots 
 through synthetic data generated by two sources with distinct SI, obtaining 
 similar results. In addition, we plot the base-level estimates in the classic 
 and traditional way to perform the comparison. We also compare these 
 visualizations of solutions by applying Euler deconvolution to the real magnetic
 anomaly of Anitápolis in southern Brazil. Either classic or plateau plots of Euler
 estimates yields similar results and we may infer that a plug generates the 
 Anitápolis anomaly.


### 2 - Content
----------------------

Python codes:

- euler_python.py
	General Python module containing the functions to compute de derivatives and 
	Euler deconvolution.
	
- synthetic_test/synthetic_euler_python.py
	Python script to generate the synthetic results. The script loads the total-field
	anomaly of a synthetic model from the file "synthetic_data.dat" and computes the
	Euler deconvolution using the functions in "euler_python.py". 
	
Outputs:
	The outputs of the synthetic_euler_python.py are stored in the folders: 
	- synthetic_test/figures - all figures that generated the synthetic example in 
						 the manuscript will be saved in this folder
						 
	- synthetic_test/output - all estimates for the plateau plot and the selected
						 estimates of the classic plot, and the meand and standard 
						 deviation will be saved in this folder

Test data:

	- synthetic_test/synthetic_data.dat
		Synthetic magnetic data generated using the Python packaged "Fatiando a Terra":
		http://fatiando.org/. This data is an example used in the current publication.
		
	- synthetic_test/Linear_L_0-1.txt
		A colormap scale to plot the magnetic data and b-estimates (Niccoli, 2014).

True data for check:
	The true data that give rises to the publication, for reviewers check
	- synthetic_test/true_results/figures - all figures that generated the synthetic 
								example in the manuscript - generated with Python 2.7
								
	- synthetic_test/true_results/output - all estimates for the plateau plot and 
								the selected estimates of the classic plot

### 3 - Prerequisites
----------------------
The Python program Euler deconvolution - "euler_python.py" requires the Python library "numpy" 
and the script "synthetic_euler_python.py" requires the Python packages "numpy" and "matplotlib". 
The easier way to get Python and all libraries installed is through the Anaconda Python 
distribution (https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/). After installed Anaconda, install the libraries 
by running the following command in your terminal:

	conda install numpy matplotlib

The program for Euler deconvolution "euler_python.py" and the algorithm "synthetic_euler_python.py"
 are compatible with both Python 2.7 and 3.7.

### 4 - Running the files
----------------------
After Anaconda and the libraries are installed, go to the folder /synthetic_test to run 
the code "synthetic_euler_python.py".
There are two easy ways to run the synthetic test "synthetic_euler_python.py"

1. Via command line: 

	1.1 On linux based systems open the command prompt windows (terminal), go to the folder 
	/synthetic_test and run the command:
	
	On Python 2.7: python synthetic_euler_python.py 
	On Python 3.7: python3 synthetic_euler_python.py 

	1.2 On windows based systems open the Iphyton console (Python 2.7) or 
	Anaconda Navigator and then Jupyter QtConsole (Python 3.7), go to the folder 
	/synthetic_test and run the command:

	run synthetic_euler_python.py

2. Open the Spyder program that comes with the Ananconda installation. In the Spyder, open
the example script "synthetic_euler_python.py" and click in "play" inside the Spyder to execute it.

If everything runs ok, a message will confirm the result and the figures and results shown in 
the publication will be saved, respectively, on the folders: /synthetic_test/figures and 
/synthetic_test/output.

The  module "euler_python.py" can be imported to an interactive Python session or called from
an external Python module. The functionalities are documented using standard Python
docstrings.

The file "synthetic_euler_python.py" is a Python-based command line script. By using this 
script, the figures and results of the synthetic test presented in the publication can be reproduced.


### 5 - License
----------------------
The following legal note is restricted solely to the content of the named files. It cannot
overrule licenses from the Python standard distribution modules, which are imported and
used therein.

The "euler_python.py" and "synthetic_euler_python.py" files are distributed under the 
following license agreement:

### MIT License

Copyright 2019 Felipe F. Melo (Observatório Nacional) and Valeria C.F. Barbosa (Observatório Nacional)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
 of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
 in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
 to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
 copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
 furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
 all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
 IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
 LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
 OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
 THE SOFTWARE.
